# Adidas-Sales-Analysis

Problem Statement
The objective of this project is to analyze the Adidas sales database for the year 2020 and 2021 and identify key insights to help improve sales performance and optimize business strategies. By analyzing the sales data, we aim to understand factors influencing sales, identify trends, and uncover opportunities for growth. 

<font size="15"><B>Background</B></font>

Sales are a fundamental aspect of any business. 
In this project, I'll analyze two tables repurposed from the Adidas Sales Dataset in Kraggle to answer the following questions:

1.What is the overall sales, profit, average price per unit, and total units sold.

2.What is the revenue generated by each product, ranked from highest to lowest?

2.What are the top three products on highest demand in terms of quantity?

3.Which retailers have the most sales per state?

4.Are there any interesting patterns as to when customers buy more products in terms of seasonality?

📊 Methodoly

I started off with two Excel files. The first Excel file, Adidas US Sales (as its name suggests), had information on transaction id, retailer, retailer id, invoice date, product, prices per unit, units sold, and sales method. 
The second Excel file, Adidas US Locations, had information on transaction id, region, state, and city. 
Here's the step-by-step of the methodology I followed:

Creating empty tables

In order to import the information on the Excel files into PostgreSQL, I had to create an empty table for each Excel sheet. These empty tables must contain the same column name of the headers while keeping in mind the data type, and column constraints.

I created the first table "adidas_sales" with the following code:
```CREATE TABLE adidas_sales (transaction_id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,retailer VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,retailer_id INTEGER NOT NULL,invoice_date TIMESTAMP NOT NULL,product VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,price_per_unit INTEGER NOT NULL,units_sold INTEGER NOT NULL,total_sales INTEGER NOT NULL,sales_method VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL ); ```

Then I created the second empty table "locations" with this query:```CREATE TABLE locations (transaction_id INTEGER REFERENCES adidas_sales(transaction_id),region VARCHAR(25) NOT NULL,state VARCHAR(25) NOT NULL,city VARCHAR(25) NOT NULL ); ```

Then I saved the two Excel files as CVS files and imported them into their corresponding table in MySQL.

Joining tables

The information I needed to solve all the questions above is in both adidassales and locations. Since both of these have the transactionid column in common, I can use the command INNER JOIN to analyze data from just one "master" table.

 ```SELECT * FROM adidas_sales INNER JOIN locations ON adidas_sales.transaction_id = locations.transaction_id; ```

💡 Results

<font size="12"><B>1. Total Sales, Total Profit, Average Price per Unit, and Total Units Sold:</B></font>
Here's the SQL query for that:
SELECT 
    SUM(total_sales) AS "Total Sales",
    SUM(price_per_unit * units_sold) AS "Total Profit",
    Round(AVG(price_per_unit),2) AS "Average Price per Unit",
    SUM(units_sold) AS "Total Units Sold"
FROM
    adidas_sales;
    And this is the data output:
    
